___Gentoo kernel meeting 2017-07-20 commented summary___
  
This is the commented summary of the first Gentoo kernel meeting,  
so there are also personal opinions.  
The meeting log can be found here[6].  
  
Today meeting topic can be seen here[1].  
  
First topic that we talked about was inerent to Gentoo kernel CI.  
Gentoo kernel ci is the continuos integrated system that is checking  
packages undes sys-kernel/ and kernel related eclasses.  
Currently Gentoo kernel ci is using buildbot and qemu with   
The first discussion was about adding lava test to Gentoo kernel CI,  
the rationale is that we can delegate testing and logs to a ad-hoc tool,  
instead of rebuild our own.  
This can make less code for us to maintain and have good quality testing.  
Having a working and proactive Gentoo kernel Continuos integration system  
can help giving more high quality kernel sources package, reducing   
human errors and faster stabilization.  
  
The discussion went on integrating Gentoo kernel ci with lava (lava is the linaro   
kernel testing suite for arm board/qemu).  
  
One of the problem of buildbot(used for automatizing Gentoo kernel ci) is that  
at the moment some failure are not cached correctly.  
The hope is that lava can give a more consistent output to be parsed by Gentoo Kernel  
CI buiildbot.  
Also lava have already experience on managing ARM boards (using remote power switch for  
example).   
One lava problem is that is using jinja2 for configuring the ARM boards.  
Example of a lava jinja2 template[2].   
Another example with my arm board[3].  
  
Gentoo Kernel CI todo list:   
- failing test have to FAIL  
- lava? arm board? qemu?  
- Gentoo need to have full boot test  
- mounting additional disks for test kernel crypto  
- auto stabilize with override option  
- change Gentoo kernel CI name (is too long!)  
- testing kernel build with different gcc chains  
- send report to upstream  
- testing eclasses with Gentoo kernel CI  
  
- The result of the discussion is that we need to research more about lava,  
the discussion is updated at the next meeting.  
  
my arm board cabinet is made by:  
odroid XU4  
Raspberry pi  
some mobile phone  
  
Next we talked about which test we want to integrate in Gentoo kernel ci,  
the most simple to integrate is probably kselftest.  
More difficult would be to integrate Gentoo Kernel ci with LPT.  
  
Next topic went to documentation about Gentoo kernel ci,  
as now the documentation is in Gentoo wiki[4] under the Gentoo Kernel project,  
unfortunately the space under the Gentoo Kernel project can only be edited  
by Gentoo kernel developers.   
For attract contributors and simplify to edit the wiki,   
I started the wiki on the github Gentoo kernel ci repository [5].  
  
- We need to work in the eclass more.  
- port eclass to EAPI7  
  
Using Gentoo Kernel ci with a gentoo kernel overlay for tesing packages before sending  
it to the gentoo repository.  

Check if merging from an overlay is making things more complicated or not.  
  
maybe better to use the overlay only for specific and difficult changes.  
  
Using and testing in the overlay would help, but make more difficult to get new   
kernels for Gentoo users.  
  
last topic was to move genpatches website to the wiki.  
From the meeting it come out interest on having a wiki if we can manage it using git.  
Because of this necessity the actual Gentoo mediawiki is not enough.  
looks like is a necessity from 2007 -> bug 176186 [6]  
  
  
Finally we had the open table at the meeting.  
  
Kuzetsa asked about making a initramfs for at least run kselftest.  
  
  
[1] https://wiki.gentoo.org/wiki/Project:Kernel/meetings/2018_07_20  
[2] https://validation.linaro.org/static/docs/v2/pipeline-admin.html#updating-device-dictionary  
[3] https://gist.githubusercontent.com/aliceinwire/21d831185ab8ab7d5b01c3d29949b298  /raw/c40d515ea92e56bbb10f5ffac63e4b35fed9ae38/gistfile1.txt  
[4] https://wiki.gentoo.org/wiki/Project:Kernel/Kernel_CI  
[5] https://github.com/gentoo/Gentoo_kernelCI/wiki   
[6] https://bugs.gentoo.org/176186  
  
[music]  
ODESZA - Across The Room (feat. Leon Bridges) [Tycho Remix]  

[[!tag draft ]]
